# MAG-ViT: Multi-Attention Grid Vision Transformer for High-Fidelity Super-Resolution in Remote Sensing
Official Pytorch implementation of the paper "[MAG-ViT: Multi-Attention Grid Vision Transformer for High-Fidelity Super-Resolution in Remote Sensing](https://github.com/AnasHXH/MAG-ViT-Super-Resolution)".

Remote sensing applications need high-resolution imagery, but hardware and acquisition constraints often limit image quality. While Vision Transformers (ViTs) have advanced RSISR (Remote Sensing Image Super-Resolution), they struggle with high computational costs and limited contextual understanding. MAG-ViT addresses these challenges by combining local and global self-attention efficiently with linear complexity.
At the heart of MAG-ViT is the HaloMBConv module, which integrates halo-based attention and mobile bottleneck convolutions to enhance spatial details while reducing redundant computations. The model uses a dual-attention strategy: fixed windows for local features and grid windows for capturing broader context, strengthened by residual connections. Experiments on UCMerced and AID datasets show that MAG-ViT achieves up to 1.1 dB PSNR and 0.03 SSIM improvements over state-of-the-art methods, while offering faster inference than diffusion-based models — making it highly suitable for practical remote sensing tasks.

## Requirements
- Python 3.6+
- Pytorch>=1.6
- torchvision>=0.7.0
- einops
- matplotlib
- cv2
- scipy
- tqdm
- scikit


## Installation
Clone or download this code and install aforementioned requirements 
```
cd codes
```


## Dataset Preparation

Download the **UCMerced** and **AID** datasets from the following links:

- **UCMerced Dataset**:  
  [Baidu Drive](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1ijFUcLozP2wiHg14VBFYWw) (Password: `terr`)  
  [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12pmtffUEAhbEAIn_pit8FxwcdNk4Bgjg/view)

- **AID Dataset**:  
  [Baidu Drive](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1Cf-J_YdcCB2avPEUZNBoCA) (Password: `id1n`)  
  [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d_Wq_U8DW-dOC3etvF4bbbWMOEqtZwF7/view)

The datasets are already split into **train**, **validation**, and **test** sets.  
The original images serve as the high-resolution (HR) references, and the corresponding low-resolution (LR) images are generated by bicubic downsampling.

## Train

```
# x4
python demo_train.py --model=TRANSENET --dataset=UCMerced --scale=4 --patch_size=192 --ext=img --save=TRANSENETx4_UCMerced
# x3
python demo_train.py --model=TRANSENET --dataset=UCMerced --scale=3 --patch_size=144 --ext=img --save=TRANSENETx3_UCMerced
# x2
python demo_train.py --model=TRANSENET --dataset=UCMerced --scale=2 --patch_size=96 --ext=img --save=TRANSENETx2_UCMerced
```

The train/val data pathes are set in [data/__init__.py](codes/data/__init__.py) 

## Test 
The trained TransENet model on UCMerced and AID datasets can be found here [[Baidu Drive](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1lvAyTagbBf5GWUOcuEkyrQ), password:w7ct][[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19nH1Plh2M-Z47iXG0-Ghq-Orh33n787w/view)]. The test data path and the save path can be edited in [demo_deploy.py](codes/demo_deploy.py)

```
# x4
python demo_deploy.py --model=TRANSENET --scale=4
# x3
python demo_deploy.py --model=TRANSENET --scale=3
# x2
python demo_deploy.py --model=TRANSENET --scale=2
```

## Evaluation 
Compute the evaluated results in term of PSNR and SSIM, where the SR/HR paths can be edited in [calculate_PSNR_SSIM.py](codes/metric_scripts/calculate_PSNR_SSIM.py)

```
cd metric_scripts 
python calculate_PSNR_SSIM.py
```

## Citation 
If you find this code useful for your research, please cite our paper:
``````
@article{lei2021transformer,
  title={Transformer-based Multi-Stage Enhancement for Remote Sensing Image Super-Resolution},
  author={Lei, Sen and Shi, Zhenwei and Mo, Wenjing},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing},
  year={2021},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
``````

## Acknowledgements 
This code is built on [RCAN (Pytorch)](https://github.com/yulunzhang/RCAN) and [EDSR (Pytorch)](https://github.com/sanghyun-son/EDSR-PyTorch). We thank the authors for sharing the codes.  


